>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JANUARY 11:
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS MARCH IN
FRANCE IN THE WAKE OF LAST
WEEK'S TERROR ATTACKS.
ALSO, CAN RECRUITMENT BY
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS BE
PREVENTED?
AND POLICING IN MINORITY
COMMUNITIES, WE'LL HEAR FROM TWO
FORMER OFFICERS WHO WALKED THE
BEAT.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
DOZENS OF WORLD LEADERS JOINED
UP TO TWO MILLION PEOPLE IN THE
STREETS OF PARIS TODAY.
IT WAS A SHOW OF SOLIDARITY
FOLLOWING THE RECENT TWIN TERROR
ATTACKS THAT KILLED 17 PEOPLE,
FIRST AT THE SATIRICAL MAGAZINE
"CHARLIE HEBDO" AND THEN AT A
KOSHER SUPERMARKET.
LATER, FRENCH PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE VISITED THE CITY'S
GRAND SYNAGOGUE WITH ISRAELI
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU.
HOLLANDE PROMISED TO BEEF UP
SECURITY AT FRANCE'S SYNAGOGUES
AND JEWISH SCHOOLS.
A VIDEO MADE BY THE GUNMAN WHO
KILLED FOUR HOSTAGES AT THE
KOSHER MARKET WAS RELEASED
ONLINE TODAY.
IN IT, HE CONFIRMED THAT THE
ATTACK ON "CHARLIE HEBDO" AND ON
THE MARKET WERE COORDINATED.
>> (translated): OUR TEAM
DIVIDED ITSELF IN HALF.
MY BROTHERS CARRIED OUT THE
ATTACK ON "CHARLIE HEDBO."
WHAT WE ARE DOING IS TOTALLY
LEGITIMATE.
YOU ATTACK THE ISLAMIC STATE, WE
ATTACK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE WERE ALSO
REPORTS THAT HIS PARTNER, WHO
APPARENTLY FLED TO SYRIA A WEEK
BEFORE THE TERROR ATTACKS, HAD
PLACED HUNDREDS OF CALLS TO THE
WIFE OF ONE OF THE BROTHERS WHO
SHOT UP "CHARLIE HEBDO."
EARLIER, THE GUNMAN HAD SAID THE
WHOLE MISSION WAS FINANCED BY
AL-QAEDA IN THE ARABIAN
PENINSULA.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
SAID TODAY AMERICANS SHOULD FEEL
SECURE BUT HE WARNED THE TERROR
THREAT REMAINS.
>> IT IS VERY DIFFICULT TO
MAINTAIN A GOOD CONTACT, TO STAY
IN TOUCH WITH ALL THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE POTENTIALLY GOING TO DO
THESE KIND OF THINGS.
THAT IS THE THING THAT, I THINK,
KEEPS ME UP MOST AT NIGHT, THIS
CONCERN ABOUT THE LONE WOLF WHO
GOES UNDETECTED.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ABOUT
TODAY'S HUGE RALLY IN PARIS,
HERE IS JOHN RAY OF ITV NEWS.
>> IN THE LONG HISTORY PARIS HAS
WITNESSED MANY DEMONSTRATIONS
BUT NOTHING COMPARED TO THIS.
IN THE COUNTLESS THOUSANDS THEY
CRAMMED EVERY AVENUE AND
EVERY BOULEVARD.
TO OFFER THE LAST WORD AT THE
END OF A WEEK OF GUN FIRE AND
BLOODSHED TO THE PEOPLE.
THE MARCH WAS LED BY THOSE FOR
WHOM THE LOSS HAS BEEN PERSONAL
ALMOST UNBEARABLE.
FAMILY OF JOURNALISTS FROM A
SATIRICAL MAGAZINES AND SHOPPERS
AT A JEWISH SUPERMARKET.
INNOCENT VICTIMS.
THERE IS NOT A COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD THAT DOES NOT STAND WITH
US SAID THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT
AND SO IT SEEMED TODAY.
DAVID CAMERON WHO WRESTLES WITH
THE SAME TERRORIST THREATS.
WHERE ELSE BUT THE ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER AND THE FRENCH
PRESIDENT STAND TOGETHER.
>> LIBERTY.
>> WE ARE AFRAID OF NOTHING AND
HERE WE ARE SAY THAT AGAIN.
WE ARE NOT AFRAID OF YOU.
>> WE DIDN'T THINK THIS WAS
UNDER ATTACK.
FINALLY NOW WE REALIZE YES WE
ARE INDEED UNDER ATTACK.
>>Reporter: PARIS REMAINS UNDER
HIGH ALERT, WITH SOLDIERED IN TO
PROTECT THE CAPITAL.
CLOSE TO 2 MILLION IN ALL.
THERE IS A GREAT DISTANCE YET TO
TRAVEL BEFORE THIS COUNTRY IS AT
EASE.
JOHN RAY, ITV NEWS PARIS.
>>
>> Sreenivasan: IN HAMBURG
GERMANY, A NEWSPAPER THAT HAD
REPRINTED SATIRICAL CARTOONS
PUBLISHED BY "CHARLIE HEBDO" IN
A SHOW OF SOLIDARITY.
WAS HIT BY ARSONISTS THIS
WEEKEND.
AUTHORITIES ARRESTED TWO PEOPLE
WHO ALLEGEDLY THREW AN
INCENDIARY DEVICE INTO THE
BUILDING.
NO ONE WAS INSIDE AT THE TIME.
IN ANOTHER PART OF GERMANY,
POLICE RAIDED THE HOME OF A 24-
YEAR-OLD MAN THOUGHT TO HAVE
FOUGHT FOR ISIS IN SYRIA AND
ARRESTED HIM.
SAUDI ARABIA HAS GONE AHEAD WITH
THE FLOGGING OF A WRITER WHO WAS
CRITICAL OF THAT COUNTRY'S
POWERFUL CLERICS.
THIS, DESPITE U.S. STATE
DEPARTMENT PROTESTS.
RAIF BADAWI REPORTEDLY WAS
BROUGHT TO A PUBLIC SQUARE AND
FLOGGED 50 TIMES IN FRONT OF
HUNDREDS OF SPECTATORS.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL SAYS HE
WILL BE SUBJECTED TO THE SAME
PUNISHMENT 20 TIMES IN ALL.
THE FLOGGING FOLLOWS BADAWI'S
CONVICTION LAST YEAR FOR
INSULTING ISLAM.
HE STARTED THE FREE SAUDI
LIBERALS BLOG IN 2012.
IN THE NORTH OF NEIGHBORING
IRAQ, A SETBACK FOR PRO-WESTERN
KURDISH FORCES BATTLING ISIS.
THE MILITANTS LAUNCHED A
SURPRISE OFFENSIVE IN SMALL
BOATS AND KILLED AT LEAST 30
KURDS, ACCORDING TO AN IRAQI
MILITARY SPOKESMAN.
THIS IN THE RIVER TOWN OF GWER,
JUST 25 MILES FROM THE KURDISH
CAPITAL CITY OF ERBIL.
THE KURDS REPORTEDLY KILLED 60
OF THE MILITANTS IN THE SAME
BATTLE.
OFFICIALS SAY WESTERN AIRSTRIKES
HAVE PUT ISIS FIGHTERS ON THE
DEFENSIVE BUT THEY REMAIN IN
CONTROL IN LARGE PARTS OF IRAQ.
INDONESIAN SEARCH TEAMS BELIEVE
THEY'VE LOCATED THE BLACK BOX
FLIGHT RECORDERS FROM THE AIR
ASIA PLANE THAT CRASHED INTO THE
JAVA SEA TWO WEEKS AGO TODAY
WITH 162 PEOPLE ON BOARD.
SEARCHERS HEARD PINGS TWO MILES
FROM WHERE THE PLANE'S TAIL WAS
FOUND YESTERDAY.
AN INDONESIAN OFFICIAL SAID THAT
THE BLACK BOXES ARE UNDER LAYERS
OF AIRCRAFT DEBRIS.
THEY WILL TRY TO RECOVER THEM
TOMORROW.
BACK IN THE U.S., ATTORNEY
GENERAL ERIC HOLDER TODAY
DEFENDED HIS HANDLING OF AN
INVESTIGATION INTO FORMER FOUR
STAR GENERAL DAVID PETRAEUS.
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED
YESTERDAY, FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
HAVE RECOMMENDED THAT CRIMINAL
CHARGES BE BROUGHT AGAINST
PETRAEUS FOR ALLEGEDLY SHARING
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION WITH HIS
LOVER IN 2012-- A CHARGE
PETRAEUS DENIES.
>> WE HAVE DONE THIS
INVESTIGATION IN, I THINK, AN
APPROPRIATE WAY.
AN APPROPRIATE DETERMINATION
WILL BE DONE AND IT WILL BE DONE
IN AN A WAY THAT I THINK THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL ULTIMATELY
DECIDE WAS FAIR TO EVERYONE WHO
WAS INVOLVED.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT REPUBLICAN
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN CRITICIZED
THE ADMINISTRATION'S HANDLING OF
THE PETRAEUS INVESTIGATION.
>> IS IT APPROPRIATE TO LEAK
INFORMATION THAT IS SUPPOSED TO
BE KEPT SEALED UNTIL THE
DECISION IS MADE?
THE RECOMMENDATION, NOT THE
DECISION.
IT'S A VIOLATION OF ANY
CITIZEN'S RIGHTS TO HAVE THAT
INFORMATION LEAKED, MUCH LESS A
MAN THAT IS A GENUINE AMERICAN
HERO.
>> Sreenivasan: THE AWARD
WINNING NOVELIST, ROBERT STONE,
KNOWN FOR WORKS LIKE "A FLAG FOR
SUNRISE" AND "DOG SOLDIERS" HAS
DIED.
"DOG SOLDIERS," WHICH WON THE
NATIONAL BOOK AWARD IN 1975, WAS
LOOSELY BASED ON HIS TWO MONTH
STINT DURING THE VIETNAM WAR AS
A JOURNALIST.
ROBERT STONE WAS 77.
AND THE SWEDISH-BORN ACTRESS,
ANITA EKBERG, HAS ALSO DIED.
EKBERG EARNED FAME FOR HER ROLE
AS A MOVIE STAR IN FEDERICO
FELLINI'S "LA DOLCE VITA."
SHE WAS 83.
>> MARCELLO!
COME HERE!
HURRY UP!
>> Sreenivasan: YESTERDAY, THE
FORMER DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY TOLD
US ONE OF HIS BIGGEST CONCERNS
IS RADICALIZED YOUNG MEN WITH
E.U. OR AMERICAN PASSPORTS
ENTERING THE U.S. TO COMMIT
TERRORIST ACTS LIKE THE ONES IN
FRANCE THIS PAST WEEK.
THAT GOT US THINKING: WHAT'S
BEING TO DONE TO PREVENT THEM
FROM BEING RADICALIZED IN THE
FIRST PLACE?
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT, WE ARE
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON BY
HUMERA KHAN.
SHE'S THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF
MUFLEHUN, A THINK TANK WHOSE
MISSION IS TO THWART TERRORISM.
SHE'S ALSO AN ADVISOR TO SEVERAL
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES INCLUDING
THE F.B.I.
SO WHAT CAN BE DONE TO PREVENT
THE RADICALIZATION IN THE FIRST
PLACE?
>> WELL, FOR PREVENTION ONE OF
THE MOST IMPORTANT THINGS YOU
HAVE TO DEAL WITH IS RAISING
AWARENESS.
PEOPLE NEED TO KNOW WHAT THEY'RE
UP AGAINST.
AND ACTUALLY, THE BAREST ENTRY
YOU DON'T HAVE YOUTH WANTING TO
ENGAGE IN IT IN THE FIRST PLACE.
FOR THOSE WHO ARE NOT CAUGHT
THROUGH PREVENTION, RIGHT, THEY
HAVE SOMEHOW ALREADY GONE DOWN
THE TRACK YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO
START TALKING ABOUT
INTERVENTION, THAT IS THE CASE
WHERE SOMEBODY EXPOSED TO THE
IDEA HAS NOT COMMITTED ANY
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, NOT MOBILIZED
TO CRIMINAL HE ACTIVITY, THEN
YOU HAVE TO HAVE AN INTERVENTION
FOR STOPPING THEM TO GO OFF TO
FIGHT.
WORKING WITH THEM SPECIFICALLY
AND THAT'S AN INDIVIDUAL PROCESS
TO GET THEM TO DISENGAGE FROM
THEIR THOUGHTS PSYCHOLOGICALLY.
>> WHAT KIND OF INTERVENTION ARE
YOU TALKING ABOUT?
FAMILIES, MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY, WHAT DO THEY DO?
>> THE SPECTRUM.
DIFFERING DEPENDING ON THE
COUNTRY AND ALSO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
IN THE U.S. WE ACTUALLY HAVE ARE
MODELS WHERE WE'RE RUNNING IT
THROUGH THE IMAM.
NOT ONLY FOR THE INDIVIDUAL BUT
ALSO FOR THE FAMILY MEMBERS
BECAUSE SOMETIMES IN SOME CASES
YOU ACTUALLY HAVE FAMILY
DYSFUNCTION.
IN OTHER COUNTRIES YOU ACTUALLY
HAVE INTERVENTION PROGRAMS WHICH
ARE RUN THROUGH THE FAMILY
ITSELF, OTHERS ARE RUN 30
THROUGH DIFFERENT COMMUNITY
CENTERS.
ANYONE WHO CAN ACTUALLY HAVE A
TRUSTED RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
PERSON.
THERE IS AN ELEMENT OF TRUST AND
THERE IS AN ELEMENT OF
LEGITIMACY, IN TERMS OF WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING, THAT PERSON
COULD DO IT, THAT COULD BE A
YOUTH DIRECTOR, A MENTOR, THERE
ARE A LOT OF OPTIONS AVAILABLE.
>> THIS ISN'T A PROCESS THAT
HAPPENS OVERNIGHT.
YOU HEAR THEM YEAR AFTER YEAR
WALKING DOWN THAT PATH.
HOW DO YOU INTERVENE AT JUST THE
RIGHT TIME?
>> INTERVENTIONS ARE SOMETHING
THAT THE SOONER YOU DO IT --
THE SOONER YOU DO IT THE BETTER
IT IS.
THE HARDER IT IS TO PULL THEM
BACK.
THE FIRST TIME YOU ACTUALLY SEE
SOMETHING SHIFTING, THE BEHAVIOR
CHANGING OPINIONS SHIFTING,
THAT'S THE PLACE, THAT'S IDEAL
PLACE YOU WANT TO DO IT BEFORE
YOU HAVE TO -- BECAUSE ONCE THE
IDEAS ARE SET, IT IS A LOT
HARDER TO DECONSTRUCT THEM.
>> HOW DO YOU FOR EXAMPLE
THE INFLUENCE OF -- COMBAT FOR
EXAMPLE THE INFLUENCE OF SOCIAL
MEDIA, JOINING A HASHTAG AND
CELEBRATING A SPECIFIC ATTACK?
>> WELL SOCIAL MEDIA IS USED TO
RECRUIT.
SOCIAL MEDIA HAS THE POWER TO
USE FOR PREVENTION.
THAT ITSELF IS NOT ENOUGH.
OOH A HASHTAG IS NOT GOING TO
CHANGE A PERSON'S MIND.
SOCIAL MEDIA IS A VERY
INTERACTIVE PLATFORM.
WE HAVE TO USE THAT ACROSS THE
SPECTRUM OF TOOLS.
>> HUMERA KHAN, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR BEING HERE.
>> IS THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW WE WANT
TO RETURN TO A STORY THAT WAS
DOMINATING THE HEADLINES IN THE
MONTHS BEFORE THE FRENCH
ATTACKS.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE OFTEN
FRAUGHT RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
POLICE AND MINORITY COMMUNITIES.
LAST WEEK, WE HEARD FROM TWO
AFRICAN-AMERICANS WHO WERE
CRITICAL OF THE POLICE.
TONIGHT, WE HEAR FROM TWO
RETIRED NEW YORK CITY POLICE
OFFICERS, WHO BOTH PATROLLED THE
SOUTH BRONX.
>> I'M JOINED NOW BY RETIRED
OFFICERS MIKE BYRD AND RUSSELL
WILLIAMS.
COMMUNITIES OF COLOR BEYOND THAT
IN YOUR OPINIONS WHAT IS THE
SOURCE OF THESE TENSIONS?
>> IT'S MOSTLY FRUSTRATION.
YOU KNOW, AND PEOPLE ARE TAKING
THEIR FRUSTRATIONS OUT, AND I
BLAME THE ADMINISTRATIONS.
THE POLICE OFFICERS ARE JUST
DOING WHAT THEY'VE BEEN TAUGHT
TO DID WHICH IS ENFORCE THE LAWS
OF THEIR RESPECTIVE CITY, STATE,
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
AND SOMETIMES, YEAH, YOU DO HAVE
CERTAIN OFFICERS THAT GO ABOVE
AND BEYOND THAT.
BUT HOWEVER, IT'S MORE SO,
DEPOSIT IS TURNING THEIR BACKS
ON A LOT OF THE PEOPLE.
>> WHEN YOU SAW THESE
DEMONSTRATIONS AFTER FERGUSON
HERE IN NEW YORK, AFTER ERIC
GARNER HERE IN NEW YORK, WHAT
WENT THROUGH YOUR MINDS?
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE TOOK IT ON AS
BEING ANTI POLICE.
YOU CAN BE -- ANTI-POLICE.
YOU CAN BE BEYOND STOP AND
FRISK, YOU CAN BE AGAINST
BRUTALITY.
WHO WANTS TO BE IN FAVOR
BRUTALITY?
I UNDERSTAND THE FRUSTRATION
THEY FEEL, THEY FEEL LIKE
THEY'RE BEING TARGETED UNFAIRLY.
SO I DIDN'T TAKE IT PERSONALLY.
I KNOW A LOT OF PEOPLE DO.
THAT THEY FEEL WELL, CONTRIBUTES
TO AN ENVIRONMENT AND A LOT OF
US THAT FEEL IT WAS ANTI-POLICE
IN GENERAL AND THAT'S WHY THAT
GUY CAME ALL THE WAY FROM
BALTIMORE TO KILL TWO POLICE
OFFICERS.
>> THERE IS ALSO THE FEELING
THAT WHEN AN OFFICER DOES TRY
REACH OUT TO TRY BRIDGE THE
DIVIDE, AND IMPROVE RELATIONS
WITH THE COMMUNITY, FOR EXAMPLE,
IN PITTSBURGH AROUND NEW YEAR'S
THERE WAS THE CHIEF OF POLICE
THERE HAD POSED FOR A SIGN IN A
COFFEE SHOP OR SOMETHING THAT
KIND OF WENT VIRAL, I RESOLVE TO
FIGHT RACISM AND WHITE VIOLENCE.
THE UNION LOOKED YOU JUST
LABELED ALL OF US COPS AS A
BUNCH OF RACISTS, AND THAT'S NOT
FAIR.
WHY IS IT IT'S SUCH A HARSH
DICHOTOMY?
>> I CAN'T SPEAK AS FAR AS
PITTSBURGH IS CONCERNED BUT THE
20 YEARS, 20 PLUS YEARS I HAVE
WITH NEW YORK CITY, THE NEW YORK
CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT IS SO
RACIALLY DIVERSE.
YOU HAVE RUSSIAN COPS.
YOU HAVE BLACK OFFICERS.
LATINO OFFICERS.
YOU HAVE GAYS, YOU HAVE -- I
WORK WITH PEOPLE FROM INDIA.
SO TO LABEL US AS RACIST, IT'S
KIND OF HARD.
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE WE'RE MORE
DIVERSE THAN ANY OTHER INDUSTRY
OR ANY OTHER TYPE OF PROFESSION
IN THE WORLD.
>> YOU GO TO A 9/11 CALL, YOU
DON'T CARE WHO'S CALLING YOU GO
TO ASSIST.
YOU GO TO HELP.
OFFICERS DON'T LIKE TO BE
LABELED AS RACIST.
THAT IS A HARD CONVERSATION,
SOMETHING VERY HARD TO HEAR.
>> THERE WAS A COMMUNITY
ACTIVIST LAST WEEK WHO WAS
TALKING ABOUT HER ORGANIZATION
HAVING TO FIELD PHONE CALLS FROM
PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY CAN'T GET
THEMSELVES TO TRUST THE POLICE.
>> TO BE AN EFFECTIVE LAW
ENFORCEMENT YOU HAVE TO HAVE THE
TRUST AND THE COMMITMENT AND THE
COOPERATION OF A COMMUNITY.
LISTEN, I'VE HAD INSTANCES JUST
IN THE PAST YEAR WHERE I'VE HAD
A GRANDMOTHER CALL, NAACP OFFICE
WHERE SHE IS A LOCAL MEMBER OF A
GANG IS MAKE HIM KEEP GUNS IN
HER HOUSE.
>> YOU HAVE WALKED THE BEATS
BEFORE, YOU HAVE FIGURED OUT HOW
TO MAKE THINGS WORK.
WHY ASK THERE THIS MISTRUST IN
COMMUNITIES, ESPECIALLY
COMMUNITIES OF COLOR AND WHAT DO
YOU DO TO GET OVER THAT?
>> IT HELPS WHEN YOU DO
COMMUNITY POLICING.
TALKING TO PEOPLE 101, WHICH IS
WHAT I DID IN THE SOUTH BRONX.
YOU CAN'T GENERALIZE.
ONE COMMUNITY, YOU WELCOME YOU
THERE -- THEY WELCOME YOU THERE.
THEY'RE GLAD TO SEE ME.
ANOTHER AREA, THEY HAVE
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH AGAINST THE
POLICE.
WHENEVER I CAME, ALL THE DRUG
DEALERS THEY HAD THEIR LOOKOUTS,
EVERYONE WAS WORKING AGAINST ME
BECAUSE THEY WERE TRYING TO MAKE
MONEY.
>> SO WHY DO YOU THINK THAT
DISTRUST EXISTS?
>> GIULIANI MOVED AWAY FROM
COMMUNITY POLICING AND IT MOVED
TOWARDS WE NEED TO CLEAN UP THE
STREETS.
WE NEED MORE PROACTIVE.
WE NEED TO MAKE MORE ARRESTS FOR
QUALITY OF LIFE ISSUES.
AND AFTER THAT WAS ALL DONE AND
WE CLEANED UP THE STREETS, THE
MISTAKE IN THE NEW YORK CITY
POLICE DEPARTMENT WAS NOT TO GO
BACK TO COMMUNITY POLICING.
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT NEEDS TO
GO BACK TO TEACHING SOCIAL
SCIENCES AND HAVING THE COPS
KNOW TO DEAL WITH DIFFERENTLY
TYPES -- DIFFERENT TYPES OF
PEOPLE, DIFFERENT RACES.
NOWADAYS IT'S ROBOTIC AND THEY
HAVE LOST CONTACT WITH THE
COMMUNITY.
>> THE CONVERSATION THAT MAYOR
BILL De BLASIO MENTIONED A
CONVERSATION HE HAD TO HAVE WITH
HIS BIRACIAL SON.
AN OFFICER SITTING HERE LAST
WEEK HAD THAT SAME DILEMMA, YES
I'M A POLICE OFFICER AND I HAD
TO HAVE THAT CONVERSATION TOO.
>> I HAVE A 13-YEAR-OLD, HE IS A
VERY INNOCENT CHILD.
HE WOULDN'T EVEN UNDERSTAND AN
INTERACTION WITH THE POLICE.
HE'S TAKING PHOTOS AS A CHILD
IN HIS FATHER'S UNIFORM AND HE
WAS PROUD OF THAT BUT
UNFORTUNATELY, THE WAY THAT
POLICE RESPOND AND INTERACT
WITH OUR YOUNG BLACK YOUTH IS
PROBLEMATIC.
>> JUST A MENTION OF THAT
CONVERSATION AND PERHAPS THE
INCREASED LEGITIMIZATION OF IT,
WAS SUCH A SORE SPOT FOR POLICE
OFFICERS IN NEW YORK AND
ELSEWHERE IN THE COUNTRY.
WHY IS THAT?
>> I BLAME A LOT OF THAT ON
MAYOR BLOOMBERG ACTUALLY.
YOU GOT TO REMEMBER, THERE WAS
GREAT INCREASE IN STOP QUESTION
AND FRISK.
A LOT OF BLACKS BEING STOPPED.
AND YOU HAVE 90 -- OUT OF ALL
THOSE STOPS, 90% THEY WEREN'T
EVEN ARRESTED.
90% OF PEOPLE WERE STOPPED FOR
BASICALLY NO REASON.
AND OF COURSE YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE TENSION THERE.
GOT TO REMEMBER, UNDER GIULIANI,
EVEN THOUGH WE WERE CLEANING UP
THE CITY THE NUMBER OF STOP,
QUESTION AND FRISK TOPPED OUT AT
ABOUT 100,000 A YEAR.
UNDER BLOOMBERG THAT INCREASED
600% TO ALMOST 700,000 A YEAR.
THAT'S A VAST INCREASE.
>> HARI, I GREW UP IN
WASHINGTON HEIGHTS IN HARLEM.
AND I COME FROM A BIRACIAL
MARRIAGE.
MY FATHER'S IRISH, MY MOTHER'S
DOMINICAN.
I WAS TAUGHT TO RESPECT THE
POLICE.
IF A POLICE OFFICER COMES UP TO
YOU, AND ASKS YOU A QUESTION,
YOU ANSWER HIM WITH RESPECT.
I'VE GIVEN THAT SAME PHILOSOPHY
TO MY CHILDREN.
IF THEY GET STOPPED BY THE
POLICE, YES, SIR, WHAT DID I DO
WRONG SIR, NOT SUCKING YOUR
TEETH OR WAVING YOUR HANDS OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT THAT YOU DO
SEE IN CERTAIN COMMUNITIES IN
NEW YORK CITY.
WHEN A POLICE OFFICER COME UP TO
A GROUP OF KIDS ON THE CORNER
THEY'LL HAVE AN ATTITUDE.
THAT PART COMES FROM YOUR
UPBRINGING, YOU KNOW.
RESPECT THE POLICE.
>> I MEAN I'VE SEEN IT, I COME
FROM A POLICE FAMILY.
MY BROTHER WAS A POLICE OFFICER
BEFORE ME, MY FATHER WAS A
POLICE OFFICER.
MY FATHER DIDN'T HAVE THAT KIND
OF TALK WITH ME.
I MEAN OF COURSE I RESPECT
PEOPLE BUT HE DIDN'T SAY WELL
YOU HAVE TO LOOK OUT, YOU HAVE
TO LOOK OUT FOR THE POLICE, YOU
KNOW?
HE TOLD ME YOU JUST HAVE TO
RESPECT EVERYBODY.
YOU KNOW, RESPECT AUTHORITY.
>> DO YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THAT
CONVERSATION IS HAPPENING
PLACES, IN PLACES BEYOND MAYOR
De BLASIO'S HOUSEHOLD?
>> OF COURSE I UNDERSTAND THAT
CONVERSATION IS HAPPENING.
AND THAT'S POLICE ARE THE
ENFORCEMENT ARM.
SING THE WHOLE SYSTEM CANNING
SEEM KIND OF STACKED.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE DISPARITIES
BETWEEN MARIJUANA ARRESTS, USING
MARIJUANA AT THE SAME RATES BUT
AS FAR AS ARRESTS GO, BLACKS ARE
VASTLY OVERREPRESENTED AND
THAT'S BECAUSE THE POLICE IS
FOCUSED ON THE MINORITY
COMMUNITY.
>> HOW COULD YOU HAVE SUCH
DIFFERENT OUTCOMES?
>> WELL, IT'S JUST LIKE RUSSELL
SAID.
WHITES AND BLACKS SMOKE THE SAME
AMOUNT OF MARIJUANA.
I WOULD SAY 90% OF THE WHITES
ARE SMOKING IT IN THE PRIVACY OF
THEIR HOME OR IN THE PRIVACY OF
A CERTAIN PLACE.
WHEREAS, IN THE BLACK
COMMUNITIES, THEY'RE OUT IN
PUBLIC, SMOKING IT.
SO WE SEE IT, YOU KNOW.
IF I SEE A WHITE GUY SMOKING POT
I'M GOING TO STOP HIM AND GYM
HIM HIS SUMMONS OR HIS ARREST.
DOESN'T MATTER WHO'S SMOKING IT,
IT'S BREAKING THE LAW IN MY
PRESENCE.
DOESN'T MATTER.
>> DOWN ON THE STREET LEVEL WHAT
IS THE TIP AS TWO RETIRED
OFFICERS YOU HAVE, THE COMMUNITY
AS WELL AS THE POLICE, TO STOP
IT BEFORE IT GETS WORSE?
>> AS A MATTER OF FACT, AS MIKE
EARLIER, WE HAVE TO GET BACK TO
COMMUNITY POLICING LET THE
OFFICERS FOCUS MORE ON 101.
>> BEYOND NEW YORK WHAT'S YOUR
SUGGESTION?
>> THE POLICE NEED TO GET OUT
INTO THE COMMUNITY.
THEY HAVE TO.
THEY CAN'T JUST STAY IN THE CARS
AND DRIVE THEM AROUND AND WAIT
FOR SOMETHING TO HAPPEN.
THEY NEED TO GO AND JUST WALK
THE BEAT.
>> OKAY, MIKE BYRD, RUSSELL
WILLIAMS, THANK YOU BOTH THANK
YOU BOTH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> VISIT
>> Sreenivasan: HEAR DIFFERENT
PERSPECTIVES ON THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN MINORITY COMMUNITIES AND
THE POLICE, VISIT
newshour.pbs.org
THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: EVERY YEAR,
MILLIONS OF NORTH AMERICAN
MONARCH BUTTERFLIES HEAD SOUTH
FOR THE WINTER IN ONE OF THE
INSECT WORLD'S MOST FANTASTIC
FEATS.
BUT AS YOU'VE LIKELY HEARD,
THEIR NUMBERS HAVE DECLINED
DRAMATICALLY IN THE PAST TWO
DECADES.
NOW THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
CONSIDERING NEW STEPS TO TRY TO
REVERSE THE TREND.
SCIENTISTS ARE STILL TRYING TO
DETERMINE JUST HOW MANY OF THE
BUTTERFLIES MADE THE LONG TRIP
TO MEXICO THIS WINTER, STILL
HOPING THAT THE 90 PERCENT
DECLINE THAT BEGAN IN THE 1990S
HAS FINALLY COME TO AN END.
>> (translated): WELL THIS
2014/2015 SEASON IS A CRITICAL
SEASON FOR US AFTER THE NUMBERS
WE HAD LAST SEASON.
WE HOPE WORK DONE JOINTLY BY THE
UNITED STATES, CANADA, AND
MEXICO WILL HELP TO INCREASE THE
NUMBER OF BUTTERFLIES ARRIVING
IN OUR SANCTUARIES.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT EVEN AS THE
BUTTERFLY COUNT CONTINUES IN
MEXICO, IN WASHINGTON,
RESPONDING TO A PETITION
SUBMITTED BY CONSERVATION
ORGANIZATIONS, THE U.S. FISH AND
WILDLIFE SERVICE RECENTLY
ANNOUNCED A YEAR-LONG REVIEW
THAT COULD MEAN THE BUTTERFLIES
ARE PLACED ON THE ENDANGERED
SPECIES LIST.
IF THAT HAPPENS, THERE COULD BE
RIPPLE EFFECTS, THE MONARCH'S
HABITATS IN THE U.S. COULD
BECOME PROTECTED UNDER LAW AND
THAT, IN TURN, COULD LEAD TO
RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF
HERBICIDES THAT MANY FARMERS
DEPEND ON TO KILL WEEDS WITHOUT
HARMING THEIR CROPS.
BUT THE TIME IT TAKES TO MAKE
THESE DECISIONS IS
CONSEQUENTIAL.
A REPORT PUBLISHED BY THE CENTER
FOR BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, A NON-
PROFIT CONSERVATION
ORGANIZATION, FOUND THAT 83
SPECIES BECAME EXTINCT BETWEEN
1974 AND 1994, AT THE VERY TIME
THE GOVERNMENT WAS DELIBERATING
ABOUT WHETHER TO INCLUDE THEM ON
THE ENDANGERED SPECIES LIST.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
MET WITH THE INDIAN PRIME
MINISTER TODAY AND SAID HE IS
HOPING FOR A FIVEFOLD INCREASE
IN TRADE BETWEEN THE TWO
COUNTRIES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA VISITS INDIA
LATER THIS MONTH.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.